	• If subnet mask is between, but not equal to 0 and 255 then use logical AND
		○ E.g. subnet mask = 255.255.255.128
		○ 3 octets plus a 1 on the last octet = network portion
		○ The rest = host portion
		○ Logical AND between IP and subnet used to determine Network portion
	• NetID = Net address
		○ But only need to do logical AND if subnet octet not = to 0 or 255?
	• Ping = ICMP (Internet Control Messaging Protocol)
	• 3 types of ICMP messages?
		○ Echo request left host, and received by sender
		○ Echo request left host, but no reply received
		○ Echo request could not be sent because route is not clear

Data-Link Layer
	• Introduction
		○ Prepares network data for the physical network
		○ Send data from NIC to NIC within the same network
			§ Then job is finished
		○ Ethernet is only one type of protocol/devices used in LAN
			§ But the most common one
	• Ethernet Family
		○ Connection Mode:
			§ Half-duplex mode: It either sends or receives data, can't do both
			§ Full-duplex mode: send and receive at the same time
			§ Standards
				□ Ethernet / 10 Mbps / half-duplex
				□ FastEthernet / 100 Mbps / both
				□ 1 Gigabit Ethernet / 1 Gbps / both
				□ 10 Gigabit Ethernet / 10 Gbps / full duplex
	• Layer 2 (L2) Switch
		○ A switch is made of integrated circuits and the accompanying software that controls the data paths through the switch
		○ Composed of several ports. Each used to connect to an end-device (e.g. host) or to another intermediary device.
		○ Forward the traffic (Based on destination MAC address) received on a port to another port where the destination is connected
			§ If the destination is known send it
			§ If destination is not known send to all other ports
		○ How does the switch know which MAC is on which port?
			§ From the cache table that will be built based on source MAC addresses 
		○ What if the switch received a frame and the destination MAC address in the frame isn't in the Switch MAC address cache?
			§ Send it out to all other ports (except the one that it came from)
	• Data-Link Encapsulation
		○ Data-Link (L2) Header
			§ Destination MAC
			§ Source MAC
		○ Network (L3) Header
			§ Source IP 
			§ Destination IP
		○ Destination MAC is not known
			§ ARP (Address Resolution Protocol)
	• ARP
		○ The Layer 2 protocol that is used to find the MAC address of the NIC (on the same network) that has certain IP address
		○ ARP mechanism:
			§ If you need the MAC of an IP address, broadcast on your network
			§ All devices on your network will receive the broadcast request
			§ Only the concerned device (i.e. NIC that has the IP address) will reply
		○ Which Destination MAC Address will be used in the Ethernet frame?
			§ Broadcast: ARP can fill the destination MAC address with(ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff = 11111111.11111111.11111111.11111111.11111111.11111111.)

Network Layer
	• Introduction
		○ A router is a networking device that forwards (routes) the traffic between computer networks
			§ As opposed to a switch that connects host NICs on the same network
		○ Router forwards traffic based on destination IP address
			§ Switch uses destination MAC address
		○ Doesn't forward any broadcast frames
			§ IMPORTANT!
		○ Splits the broadcast domain into multiple broadcast domains
			§ Switch has one broadcast domain
		○ Connect networks that have different network id
			§ Switch connects PCs that share the same network id
		○ Can connect networks that are connected using different technologies (e.g. Ethernet, ADSL, Broadband, etc.)
			§ Switch forward traffic between networks that are connected using data-link standard (e.g. Ethernet)
	• Router example
		○ In packet tracer
	• Default Gateway
		○ The router interface that is connected on a network reachable from the host
		○ It's the IP address of the NIC of the router
		○ A host uses it in case it wants to send data to another host  in different network
		○ It should be directly connected on the same network of the hosts
		○ The IP address of a default gateway should have the same NetID of the hosts
		○ The host 
	• Small Network Routing
		○ The most simple router is a computer that has two network cards at least
		○ You can turn any computer into a router if it has more than two NICXs and it's equipped with a software
	• Directly connected networks
		○  on a Routing table that contains:
			§ network address
			§ subnet mask
			§ Metric (Hop Count)
				□ How many steps to get to the network
				□ Direct connections to the router are have a metric of 0
			§ Interface
Static Routing